Downtown Windsor Farmer's Market set to start Saturday
The first time Frank Iakovidis experienced the Downtown Windsor Farmer's Market, he and his family knew right away they wanted to be part of it. Now he and his family business are part of the local farmer's market for a second-consecutive year."Honestly, my wife told me about it. So we went there to visit on a Saturday morning," said Iakovidis, who helps run Kristinas Extra Virgin Olive Oil. "I grew up in Windsor and we all knew that area growing up, for the wrong reasons. But when we went there, I couldn't believe it. It's a complete transformation. The street was packed with people and kids. There was music. It was vibrant. It really came to life."Grand Cantina is leaving Ford City. Here's who's moving inVideoWindsor, Ont., hot sauce Halo Heats spices things up on Let's Make a DealAnd on Saturday, Iakovidis and his family will be back with their Kristinas Extra Virgin Olive Oil, while dozens of other vendors will have their offerings with the market opening for the first time this year."It's super exciting," Iakovidis said. "Last year we had a great response. Excellent local support. And you know, we decided to do it again this year."The market season is starting a month early this year and will run until the end of October.Iakovidis said he and his family also love the atmosphere between vendors, which makes their time at the market a special one. Steve Green, the general manager of the Downtown Windsor Farmer's Market, said it's something market goers feel as well."I'm not sure if folks know or not, but the the market really operates as a real incubator for small businesses in Windsor," Green said. "And the best part about it is you're literally putting the money that you spend in the hands of families of Windsor and Essex County folk. And I think that's a fantastic reason to come down to the market."The Downtown Windsor Farmer's Market starts Saturday from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. on Pelissier and Wyandotte Sts.
Windsor's drug consumption and treatment site expected to open in April
Health Canada has yet to give the Windsor-Essex County Health Unit the green light unit to open the doors of the Safepoint Consumption and Treatment Site (CTS), despite a successful inspection on March 8."Health unit staff has been following up with Health Canada to get an update," said Fabio Costante, chair of the board of health. "But on their end they're very busy and so the communication back is that it's certainly being reviewed and it's going to hopefully be in the next week or two."The Safepoint site is located at at 101 Wyandotte St. E. Officials previously said it could be open by the end of March.Costante says a manager has been hired and staff are being hired and the renovations to the building are substantially complete. It's not clear what's holding up the approval. Downtown Windsor councillor pauses push to re-locate drug consumption site Efforts to establish the site go back several years. Community groups that have been pushing for the CTS say delaying the opening puts lives further at risk.Bilal Nasser is part of the group called Save the Windsor CTS. He's disappointed the opening is being delayed."And just the nature of this opioid epidemic we're in, it's unfortunate that it couldn't be opened sooner because the bottom line is every day we don't have this medical service, there's more risk of a loss of life," said Nasser."It can't happen soon enough. We're all ready to roll, and we're both as residents and having been participating in co-ordinating the launch of the safe consumption site, we're eagerly looking forward to it happening," said Bob Cameron, co-director of the Downtown Windsor Community Collaborative.Costante says when approval comes, it will take about a week before it can open.CBC News has reached out to Health Canada for comment.
Lakeshore Canadiens win 5-hour Ontario junior hockey game in record-setting battle of attrition
Marco Sladoje has never experienced such a feeling of relief — and the same could likely be said for all of his Lakeshore Canadiens teammates as well as the Wheatley Omstead Sharks.Exhausted physically and mentally as the clock ticked past 12:30 a.m. Thursday at the Wheatley Area Arena, Sladoje, 19, got the puck on a breakaway and snuck it by Sharks goalie Ethan Handley. That made it 5-4 for Lakeshore, ending the longest game in Provincial Junior Hockey League history and Wheatley's season.Lakeshore took the PJHL's Stobbs Division best-of-seven semifinal 4 games to 2. The 60-team Junior C league has teams in communities across Ontario. "I was just so relieved. I just put my hands up and put my head up," Sladoje said of the celebration after the game, which began at 7:27 p.m. on Wednesday and wrapped up at 12:45 a.m. Thursday. "And I just had the team come around me. It was a lot of relief and a lot of excitement as well. The little adrenalin you do have left was still pumping. It was a great moment in my hockey career, for sure." You're looking at 11 periods of gruelling playoff hockey in less than 24 hours. That's incredible.- Mark Seguin, GM, Lakeshore CanadiensSladoje, who's from Belle River, said he has played in overtime games before, but nothing like this. There are usually three 20-minute regulation periods, but during the playoffs, a tie goes to 20-minute overtime periods until there's a winner.To put that in perspective, a typical hockey game (incorporating times when play stops for penalties, offsides, player injury or other reasons) lasts between 90 and 120 minutes. Lakeshore and Wheatley played for over 5 hours."It was honestly the most gruelling, I won't say worst experience. But it was worse than any bag skater or any physical endurance we had to do." Sladoje said. "I think at one point everyone was taking like 10- to 15-second shifts. Guys were falling all over the place. It was hard. It wasn't easy, that's for sure."Sladoje joked that at one point, they were wondering how much longer they could keep playing."There was a lot of cramping in the legs. But nobody wanted to ice their legs because you don't want to do that in the middle of a game. There were a lot of guys putting on BioFreeze [pain rub] to keep them going."During the intermissions, Sladoje said, the players took in lots of fluids and proteins to keep going.192 shots laterCanadiens general manager Mark Seguin said because they were on the road, the team began to run out of supplies."You don't factor in eight periods of hockey," Seguin said. "We bring lots of Gatorade, water, bananas, protein bars and other food for the players. But after 11 p.m., the stores are closed in town. At one point, all we had left was water."During Game 6, Canadiens goalie Nicholas Bolton made 96 stops on 100 shots, while Handley stopped 87 of 92 shots."What people forget is these two teams played in Lakeshore the night before," Seguin said. "So you're looking at 11 periods of gruelling playoff hockey in less than 24 hours. That's incredible."
Detroit-Windsor Truck Ferry in jeopardy of closing, company says
The Detroit-Windsor Truck Ferry (DWTF) is in financial trouble and the company's president says help from government is needed to keep the service running.Gregg Ward, president of the DWTF, said the truck ferry is seeking about $160,000 US a month to keep operating.He wants to see that cost shared equally between the Canadian side and Michigan, saying he believes it is a service that has significant public value."If they would like it to stay open, I will need support to do that," Ward said in an interview Thursday evening.The truck ferry is the only legal way to move hazardous materials across the border in Windsor, Ont., and it also allows for overweight or large dimension trucks to get across.Future of truck ferry uncertain once the Gordie Howe International Bridge opensLack of ice on Great Lakes and rivers is helpful to shipping but may have environmental impactsWard is hoping to receive funding to at least keep the service running until the Gordie Howe International Bridge — which will allow hazardous materials to cross — is open in 2025.The ferry is also playing a role in the construction of that bridge, since it is used to transport oversize loads.Ward said his agreement with the charter company for the equipment to run the ferry expires Friday, and if the service is to continue, DWTF needs to make a commitment."If I don't have support I'm not going to sign," he said.The Detroit-Windsor Truck Ferry is shown in a 2022 file photo. (Dale Molnar/CBC)The ferry has been in operation since 1990. Ward says what has changed is that he is getting less business from hazardous material trucks.Ward warns that losing the ferry option will mean detours for the nearly 14,000 trucks carrying hazardous material across the border yearly, adding time to routes and heightening the risk of accidents.Trucks coming into Windsor from Detroit disembark from the Detroit Windsor Truck Ferry in west Windsor. (Dale Molnar/CBC)If the truck ferry closed, Ward says it would also affect the Stellantis-LG Energy Solution EV battery plant being built in Windsor.Any trucks carrying hazardous material related to the plant would have to go all the way to the Blue Water Bridge in Sarnia, Ont., to get to automakers in Detroit."The extra mileage and resulting emissions are counter intuitive to the green energy investment goals of the plant," Ward said in an email. "And certainly the communities on the way to the Blue Water Bridge won't appreciate the increase in hazmat traffic."MP advocating for ferry to stay openIn a letter dated March 22, 2023, Windsor West NDP MP Brian Masse told Infrastructure and Communities Minister Dominic LeBlanc and Minister of Transport Omar Alghabra that the truck ferry is integral to cross-border trade.He pointed to the Stellantis-LG EV battery plant as one project whose contractors use the ferry to move large components of construction across the border.He also used the border blockades of early 2022 as an example of the need for a redundancy."I am asking that you both intervene to find a solution to maintaining [the Detroit-Windsor Truck Ferry] until at least the new Gordie Howe Bridge is opened and an examination to keep it operational for security reasons past that point."In a statement, a spokesperson for Transport Canada says the ministry is reviewing the letter from Masse "and will respond in due course."
A Windsor, Ont., tenant claims she found something moving in her water. But answers were hard to find
Nancy Basinger says she saw little ripples of movement inside a bucket of water from her bathroom, and she almost couldn't believe her eyes.The downtown Windsor, Ont., tenant says she immediately called over a friend to take a look at what she thought were little tiny fish swimming in her water. But she says she's since had them identified by a researcher as crustaceans — aquatic invertebrates known as amphipods. "I was totally and completely stunned," she said. "I couldn't believe there were live critters coming out of my faucet." Basinger says since spotting these crustaceans in her water on Feb. 12, she and two of her neighbours have stopped drinking or cooking with the water from the building. The city, the landlord and a consultant hired by the landlord say they haven't found an issue. But Basinger says she should have been kept more in the loop. Basinger told CBC News she has tried to get answers from several organizations, but doesn't feel like she's been properly notified or kept up to date about the issue. She feels her situation highlights the barriers tenants might face when they try to deal with residence-related issues themselves. "As a tenant, you don't have standing with the health unit, you don't have standing with Enwin water, you don't have standing to go to whomever, it's like this black hole I have fallen into," said Basinger. "And I'm very frustrated with it." Basinger holds the tubes that she has placed her unit's water inside of and brought to researcher Marco Hernandez at GLIER. (Jennifer La Grassa/CBC)Basinger lives at a low-rise apartment building in the area of Giles Boulevard West and Dougall Avenue.Basinger told CBC News that she has reached out to the city's water and hydro company Enwin Utilities, the Windsor-Essex County Health Unit (WECHU), the City of Windsor and her landlord, Skyline Living.But when she found it difficult to get immediate action or answers from any of these organizations, she said she took it upon herself to bring samples of her water to the University of Windsor's Great Lakes Institute for Environmental Research (GLIER). WATCH: Here's what Nancy Basinger says she's found in her waterHere's what Nancy Basinger says she's found in her water1 day agoDuration 3:14Basinger describes the moment she saw movement in her water and then saw the crustaceans up close under the microscope.Many unanswered questionsAt GLIER, post-doctoral fellow Marco Hernandez identified the crustaceans in the water as amphipods and said they have shrimp-like qualities.He assumes there might be a crack or leak in one of the building's pipes, but even then, he said the amiphipods shouldn't be alive. "Animals of that size shouldn't be thriving in fresh water, especially after being treated [by] the utility company here," he said. "If you have amphipods in there, what else is in your water? How did the amphipods get there? I really don't know."According to Hernandez, these crustaceans aren't known to cause any health issues for people who ingest them and they do live in fresh water. Marco Hernandez is a post-doctoral fellow with GLIER. He has identified what is in Basinger's water as amphipods and nematodes, both are aquatic invertebrates.  (Jennifer La Grassa/CBC)Of the 10 samples that Basinger brought to Hernandez from her home and a neighbour's, he said he has found amphipods, other aquatic invertebrates called nematodes or other floating debris, in four. Nematodes can potentially cause digestive issues in people, including diarrhea, nausea and vomiting. Hernandez says his testing found these were only found in Basinger's water. One of the samples is from Basinger's neighbour, Krystyl Miners', apartment. "I've had nightmares you know about drinking a glass of water and feeling something crawl on my tongue. Yeah, it's terrible," said Miners, who said she saw the amphipods in Basinger's water. Miners said that she wanted to see Skyline notify other tenants that there might be an issue with the drinking water. Landlord, city find water is clearCBC News took samples from Basinger's tub, her neighbour's tub and a friend of Basinger's who lives down the hall in the same building, to GLIER. But Hernandez didn't find anything in these samples. Skyline disputes that it was slow to react. An emailed statement from Skyline Living's vice-president, BJ Santavy, said that the City of Windsor and third-party company Culligan Water, have all taken samples from Basinger's apartment and the building's boiler room — which is where water enters the building. Jeff Stirling, vice-president of marketing and communications for Skyline Group of Companies, said the company has also taken "several" samples from "areas throughout the building." Douglas Kwan is the director of tenant services and advocacy at Advocacy Centre for Tenants Ontario.  (Jennifer La Grassa/CBC)Each sample was tested for water purity and they all came back normal, according to Santavy and the Culligan Water report. "The health and safety of our tenants is always our number one priority," Santavy's statement reads. "When made aware of any concern, our on-site staff are quick to react ... in this case, the proper processes were followed, but we have yet to find any concerns with the water in this unit, other units in the building, or the main water intake."Stirling told CBC News that Skyline has been in "regular communication" with the tenant and met with Basinger last week.At this time, Basinger said she believes Skyline has been "sincere" in their investigation, but that they have been slow to act on the situation. In an email, the City of Windsor's building department's manager of inspections Rob Vani told CBC News that it started actively investigating a potable water issue at the unit on Feb. 16. It has since found "no issues" with the water and closed its investigation on March 20. WECHU told CBC News in an email that it is "unable to provide detail as the WECHU does not disclose complaints submitted to the organization." Meanwhile, Enwin Utilities' vice-president of water operations, Robert Spagnuolo, told CBC News that they received a complaint and found through an investigation that the "source water coming from Enwin was safe and the issue was on the customer's side of the shut off."Advocate says tenant can file with the LTBDouglas Kwan, director of advocacy and tenant services at Advocacy Centre for Tenants Ontario, said that sometimes organizations won't release certain details due to privacy concerns.But he said that the landlord has an "obligation" to speak with the tenant and make sure that the unit and building are being properly maintained. This is what Hernandez can see in the water samples under his microscope. (Jennifer La Grassa/CBC)Kwan said Basinger can file an application with the Landlord and Tenant Board (LTB) if she feels the landlord isn't "fulfilling their obligations under the law which is to maintain the unit in good condition and also maintain the residential premises in good condition." "This gap of providing information to the complainant really handcuffs them in order to take any other steps to ensure their safety, it doesn't allow them to follow up on any of the work that may have been ordered by the city," he said. Even though the samples have turned up clean for others, Basinger said she doesn't feel the water is safe to drink. She said she won't feel fully comfortable consuming it unless the pipes in the building and underground have been thoroughly checked by a plumber with a camera. She's also planning on filing an application with the LTB against Skyline."Until I see [Skyline has] taken a camera, they've examined for cracks in the pipes and they've dug up the pipes and repaired them, I'm not going to feel safe," she said. Basinger said this situation has highlighted the need for a central contact that tenants can reach out to about problems that could pose a health concern. 
Police looking for 2 suspects in connection to fire at vacant Mission Thrift Store
The Windsor Police Service has determined a fire at a vacant commercial building was set deliberately and the arson unit is looking for two suspects, the force said in a news release.On Wednesday around 12:30 p.m., officers responded to a fire call in the 300 block of Giles Boulevard East at a former Mission Thrift Store location.There were no injuries due to the fire, but the building sustained between $500,000 and $1 million in damages, the release said.Police said the arson unit determined the fire was set deliberately and two men were observed leaving the scene in a stolen U-Haul truck when the fire began.The truck was later located and seized as evidence. Police are asking residents with surveillance or dash cam footage, particularly those who live in the area of Giles Boulevard, to check for evidence from 12 p.m. to 12:45 p.m. Wednesday.Anyone with information is asked to call Windsor police or Crime Stoppers.
Spitfires set for playoff journey that begins Thursday
Brett Hedges, like every Windsor Spitfires fan, has high hopes for their team's journey to the Memorial Cup. After being one game away from winning the Ontario Hockey League championship in 2022, the super fan says this is the year. And he can't wait for the journey to begin tonight, when his beloved Spitfires host the Kitchener Rangers in Game 1 of the OHL Western Conference quarter-final at 7 p.m. at the Windsor Family Credit Union Centre."I think that overall, in general, this team could 100 per cent get back to the OHL finals," Hedges said. "The Windsor Spitfires are the best team in the OHL Western Conference. That's not up for debate. It's just whether or not they can put it all together during a playoff series, right." CHL TRADE ROUNDUPSpitfires deal for Canadian world junior captain Shane Wright before OHL deadlineMatthew Maggio hits 50-goal mark for SpitfiresHedges said his prognostication comes after a roller coaster year for the resilient Spitfires."If you had asked me how I thought the team was going to do at the beginning of March, I thought that they maybe would make it to the second round, maybe the third best," Hedges said. "At that time, they had lost six of their past seven games. They were really dealing with a lot of injuries and illnesses on the team. But they have rattled off a fantastic month of March. They finished first in the Western Conference holding off two really good teams in London and Sarnia for that top spot."And he said that's all because of the team's leadership, beginning with captain Matthew Maggio.Last Season's Heartbreak is MotivationLast season Maggio and his Spitfires watched on as the Hamilton Bulldogs celebrated the OHL championship after winning Game 7, which punched their ticket to the Memorial Cup.With those images still fresh in the heads of the Spitfires, the 20-year-old captain and his teammates are set to take that next step."I don't think there's any goal less than winning," Maggio said. "We know that teams are coming at us to knock us out, being the No. 1 seed. Everyone wants to be the underdog and take us down. But we're ready for that. We are the No. 1 seed and we're going to show you why that is, so I think we're excited for that opportunity. And we're going to come in here every night and play our best."The Spitfires come into the playoffs at the top of the Western Conference thanks to a 94 point season and record of 44 wins,18 losses, four overtime losses and two shootout lossesThough the Rangers are the No. 8 seed in the Western Conference, their 33-29-6-0 record and 72 points is nothing to take for granted. "We know that they're super skilled and fast up front," Maggio said. "I mean, that's their strength is they have a lot of guys that can really make plays off the rush. And I think the big thing for us is just combating the physicality and really trying to be physical and make it a tough series."Head coach Marc Savard agreed with his captain and said this series is going to be a tough one."There is no underdog," Savard said. "These guys (Rangers) are a good hockey team with some great players and we're gonna be ready right from Game 1.A season of adversityDespite earning that No. 1 seed in the west, the Spitfires have had to do it while being short staffed for much of the season, for a variety of reasons. Coach Savard said that has built the character of this 2022-23 edition of the Spitfires."We had a great start this year and we really had to push for what we wanted to achieve and that was first place," Savard said. "And with all the injury trouble we had this year and the way we played, I'm really proud of the guys. We got the job done, and now we roll on the playoffs with home ice."Heading into the Western Conference quarter-final, the Spitfires will be without defenceman Roddy Dionicio, who is out for two games because of a suspension.He received the two-game suspension after shooting the puck over the glass after the London Knights scored in Saturday's loss.Defenceman Nicholas De Angelis still may not be available because of an upper body injury.Overage defenceman Michael Renwick and rookie forward Liam Greentree are expected back for Thursday's game. Greentree missed six games after getting injured on March 11 against Kitchener.
GECDSB announces land purchase and plans for new elementary school in Lakeshore
The Greater Essex County District School Board (GECDSB) has purchased land in Lakeshore it will use to build a new elementary school.Located at 1469 County Rd. 22, east of Rourke Line Road and north of Girard Drive, the school built on the 2.3-hectare plot of land will help alleviate some pressure on other schools in the area, the board said in a news release Thursday.The school, which will accommodate 582 students, comes amid recent population growth in the area and "will relieve some of the enrolment pressure being experienced at Belle River Public School and Lakeshore Discovery School," the release said.The provincial government is providing $13.02 million to help with construction.The board is now looking for an architect to design the project.A public meeting for area residents is also being planned so more information about the project can be shared.
In wake of noise complaints, Windsor councillors want to see if Ottawa will pay to upgrade level crossings
A Windsor council committee wants the city took at whether the federal government can pick up the tab on a plan to reduce whistling coming from trains.Residents in South Walkerville have recently complained to Ward 4 councillor Mark McKenzie about an increase in the number of times Essex Terminal Railway (ETR) trains have been blowing their horns at level crossings in their neighbourhoods.McKenzie — who proposed the motion at Windsor council's standing committee on transportation, environment and public safety — also wants more information on the decibel levels of the train whistles.One South Walkerville resident, John West, said in an interview prior to the meeting that the noise started in October of 2022.He says the train whistles can sometimes be heard as late as 1:30 a.m. and as early as 6 a.m.Transport Canada says it is aware of the complaints and has communicated them to ETR.The crossing at Hall Avenue is one of the crossings which would need to be upgraded so that trains would not need to blow whistles there. (Dale Molnar/CBC)By law, trains have to use their horns when passing public crossings."While the department understands that whistling can be bothersome for people living close by, whistling is one way to keep drivers, cyclists and pedestrians safe when using public railway-roadway grade crossings," a Transport Canada spokesperson said in a statement. "The sounding of an engine bell or a train whistle is the only warning device that train operators have at their disposal to alert any persons on, or near the tracks of an approaching train."West is calling for a number of alternatives including a system of warning lights at crossings that eliminate the need for trains to blow horns. Trains must blow horns at crossings that don't include guard arms that come down to stop traffic when a train is approaching.West attended the standing committee meeting virtually Wednesday and had planned to make an 11-page submission to the committee, but due to technical difficulties wasn't able to present as a delegate on the issue.He was invited to return for the meeting when council further discusses the issue.A report by transportation planning senior engineer Jeff Hagan states that to upgrade level crossings with the equipment would cost around $3 million each. But West says there are cheaper alternatives."In Alaska they had the same issue. There are warning lights that show when a train approaches. Engineers do not have to use the horns, and there are the safety upgrades and various other recommendations," said West, who lives on Lorraine Street. First responders get lesson on railway cars carrying dangerous goods In January, city council passed a resolution directing administration to meet with ETR to initiate a process to request train whistling be limited and used only if absolutely necessary on lines located east of Howard Avenue and West of Walker Road.Hagan reports that ETR officials rejected a suggestion that nighttime operations cease due to concerns it would affect their operations and revenue.ETR also indicated that their horn volumes are regularly measured and adjusted to be as close as possible to the federally regulated minimum levels.They agreed, however, to looking into the possibility of placing horns on the underside of locomotives rather than on top to minimize the noise experienced in neighbourhoods.At the meeting Wednesday, a representative of ETR said federal rules mandate the horn be on top of the locomotive, so moving it below the train is not an option.Committee chair Fabio Costante said in an interview prior to Wednesday's meeting that there may be some "low hanging fruit" that council could explore to mitigate some of the issues but he is not optimistic the horn blowing can be reduced without a heavy cost to the taxpayer."The way that the report is drafted it, it appears as though the options are somewhat limited and very expensive," said Costante.Hagan reports that at least two crossings — Benjamin Avenue and Hall Avenue — would cost the $3 million to upgrade.He added that "it is likely that other crossings along the corridor would need upgrades to meet the standards for whistling cessation."
For struggling families and seniors in Windsor, new grocery rebate just a 'drop in the bucket'
The federal budget released Tuesday includes a one-time payment the government is calling a grocery rebate, but some in Windsor, Ont., say the money won't go very far in helping lower-income people with the rising cost of food.A single person with no children could get a one-time payment of up to $234, while a couple with two children could receive up to $467 and a senior citizen about $225.Budget 2023 offers billions for dental care, plus spending cuts and tax hikes to tame deficitFrom groceries to booze, payday loans to plane tickets — here's what the budget means for your walletThe timing of the payment will depend on how quickly the government can get the legislation to implement the budget passed.The move comes as the cost of food continues to rise year over year despite the fact that overall inflation has been easing for months now.June Muir, president of the Windsor-Essex Food Bank Association, said the amount of money isn't going to make much of an impact."I'm sure that families will be happy that they're going to receive something one time, but for us it's disappointing," she said."People are still going rely on a food bank, so it's very disappointing. And I was expecting more and hoping for more for people because food inflation is higher than inflation."Muir said government needs to be thinking bigger than the one-time payment. I just don't understand why the food prices keep rising.- Karen Kirby"We need to look at the root causes. We need policy change. And you know, food banks are being relied on to the point where we've never seen it like this before."Muir said last year, 8,000 new clients came to the food bank for help, and when money is tight, people pay their rent and utilities bills first, which puts even more pressure on food banks."With inflation the way it is today, that's the last thing they're buying is food. So we were hoping for more," she said."It's disappointing and I can see that our numbers are not going to decrease, that we're just going to get busier and people are going to rely on us more and we hope we can keep up."As international students struggle to make ends meet, a church offers up free mealTuesday's budget to include grocery rebate for lower income Canadians: sourcePolicy changes, more fundingMuir said social support rates — like disability payments — need to be raised to help people fight food inflation.She also noted that affordable housing and lower rent would keep more money in people's pockets to spend on food. We fight every day, you know, trying to find a buck.- Barb MelocheOne thing that has changed at the food bank, Muir said, is that more people using the service are employed but still can't make ends meet."They're just earning maybe minimum wage or they're not making enough money," she said."They have lots of children. So we are helping many, many families, individual seniors, youth, kids that are going to school."She also said that because of the high prices, many people who used to donate to the food bank can't afford to anymore."It's been a struggle for many, many people and we only see it getting worse, not better.One Sunday a month, University Community Church offers a home-cooked lunch to those in need. Many are international students. (TJ Dhir/CBC)At the University Community Church, next to the University of Windsor campus, Rev. Shalini Sankarlal, the church's pastor, said that amount of money won't do much."It definitely isn't enough," she said."[Tuesday] alone we had six people knock on our door for food cards that we give away in addition to the food cupboard that we have. So while it is something, it will not be sufficient."Alison Brown, an admin assistant at the church, agreed."It's not enough. That's my first initial reaction for sure, because I've had students tell me this month I have to decide if I'm going to buy some bread or I'm going to buy some milk," she said."The need is much greater than those amounts."Rev. Shalini Sankarlal is the pastor at University Community Church. (Submitted by Shalini Sankarlal)Brown said trying to get food prices lower, in addition to financial assistance, would help.Sankarlal said that, like Muir, she thinks there needs to be a more holistic approach to solving the problem."It seems like a Band-Aid rather than a solution," she said."What are the housing opportunities that [students] have? How do you control the rent that they're paying? You have to look at the food as well and how can we help them there."'Drop in the bucket'CBC spoke with several people in Windsor about the proposed grocery rebate and while the money is welcome, many say it isn't enough."It's just a drop in the bucket," said Joan Hames, a senior on a "very limited income.""But like I said, I'm grateful for anything that I get because my income is so small.""That would be fantastic," said Barb Meloche. "We're seniors ourselves, and we fight every day, you know, trying to find a buck. Do you pay your rent? Do you get your groceries? So that would be fantastic.""I just don't understand why the food prices keep rising," said Karen Kirby."It just seems to be ridiculous. It's never enough." All the people CBC spoke to said the program should be a two-time payment, rather than just one.And some said they thought government should be doing more to get prices down — like dropping some taxes people are paying on their food.
Budget 2023 offers billions for dental care, plus spending cuts and tax hikes to tame deficit
Finance Minister Chrystia Freeland tabled a federal budget Tuesday projecting a deficit about $10 billion higher than initially forecast — an increase driven by a worsening economy and new spending on initiatives like a national dental care program.Freeland's fiscal plan projects the deficit will be $40.1 billion in 2023-24 — up from the $30.6 billion she said it would be just last fall.Freeland's relatively brief 250-page budget is being pitched as a focused plan to address inflation — there will be another one-time GST rebate for low-income Canadians — and to position the economy for the future through multi-billion-dollar tax credits to stimulate the clean energy sector.A faltering economy means Ottawa will collect $5.7 billion less in revenue this fiscal year than it initially projected — a development that blows a big hole in the federal treasury.To keep a lid on mounting deficits, Freeland is proposing a series of tax increases on the rich and large corporations and cuts to government spending.All told, Freeland is planning to slash some $15.4 billion in spending over the next five years through "targeted reductions," including an effort to curb the use of "professional services" and management consultants and a reduction in travel expenses.She's promising to levy a two per cent tax on stock buybacks, to hike the "alternative minimum tax" to make the wealthier pay more and to tax dividends received by financial institutions — three initiatives that are projected to raise $11.6 billion over the next five years.The budget is also increasing the air travellers security charge by 32.85 per cent to address the sorry state of Canada's airports. That works out to a $34.82 levy on international flights.Air passengers will be on the hook for some of the costs associated with improving security and baggage screening.Highlights from the federal budget: A one-time "grocery rebate," which will provide eligible families with up to $467. Single people with no kids could get up to $234 more.A 40 per cent increase to Canada Student Grants.A $13-billion plan to expand dental care to families earning less than $90,000 a year.A new 15 per cent refundable tax credit for clean electricity investments.A refundable 30 per cent tax credit for investments in clean tech manufacturing. Cuts to government spending.A tax on share buybacks.In a speech to MPs after tabling her budget, Freeland said the document maintains Canada's "proud tradition of fiscal responsibility."With economic growth expected to flatline this year (Ottawa is projecting a 0.3 per cent increase in GDP), Freeland said Ottawa needs to follow an economically prudent path while spending more in some areas."By exercising fiscal restraint, we are ensuring that we can continue to invest in Canadians and in the Canadian economy for years to come," she said.Kevin Page, the former parliamentary budget officer, told CBC News the government clearly has grown "more pessimistic" about Canada's economic outlook since the fall mini-budget."We're looking at flat real growth in 2023. The unemployment rate is going to tick up. You really can't make the case that they've loosened the purse strings all that much in this budget," he said, adding the planned spending increases are relatively "modest."Missing from Freeland's document is any major new initiative to help ease the housing supply crunch — a problem that has only gotten worse as the country absorbs hundreds of thousands of new arrivals who are all looking for a place to live.Highlights from the 2023 federal budgetFrom groceries to booze, payday loans to plane tickets — here's what the budget means for your walletCanada added more than a million people last year. Housing starts haven't kept pace."In terms of a housing affordability, we're in real trouble," said Armine Yalnizyan, an economist and Atkinson Fellow on the Future of Workers."I think it's remarkable that this government is importing over a million people, temporarily and permanently, and every one of those people needs a place to live and we're not accelerating our building of affordable rental housing."A condo tower is seen under construction in downtown Vancouver as freighters sit at anchor on English Bay. Critics panned the budget's relative inaction on housing. (Darryl Dyck/Canadian Press)The government's long-promised home savings account will roll out this year, offering tax savings for first-time buyers.The "housing accelerator fund," an incentive announced in last year's budget to encourage municipalities to make home construction easier, will also unleash roughly $925 million in funding this year to spur construction.The Financial Consumer Agency of Canada is also drafting some sort of "code of conduct" to protect Canadians with mortgages who are facing "exceptional circumstances." The budget offered no details.Roughly 70 per cent of the $43 billion in net new spending announced in this year's budget is earmarked for health and dental care over the next six years.The budget commits to extending the federal dental care program, fulfilling the Liberals' agreement with the NDP. (Michael Conroy/Associated Press)The budget sets aside full funding for its dental care plan, fulfilling the government's commitment to the NDP.The program will continue to roll out this year, extending dental services to lower income Canadians who don't already have access to a dentist.The program's price tag is steep: $13 billion over five years.When the program is fully operational in 2025, nine million uninsured Canadians with an annual family income of less than $90,000 will qualify for coverage. There will be no co-pays for those with a family income under $70,000.The program will be run by Health Canada with a "third-party benefits administrator" charged with actually managing program benefits — a structure that essentially leaves the provinces and territories out of the mix.Budget earmarks millions to combat foreign interferenceFederal government eases some restrictions on non-Canadians purchasing property"No Canadian ever again will need to choose between taking care of their teeth and paying their bills at the end of the month," Freeland said. "There are significant and necessary investments."WATCH: Budget projects $40B deficit this year - higher than forecast:Federal budget promises funds for dental care, clean tech, ‘grocery rebate’3 days agoDuration 3:16The federal government's 2023 budget includes billions of dollars in spending for health and dental care, clean tech investment and a 'grocery rebate' to help some Canadians struggling with the rising prices of necessities.While the Liberal Party promised a dedicated mental health transfer in the 2021 federal election campaign, Freeland's budget offers little to help Canadians grappling with depression, anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder and other ailments.The largest budget line-item on this file is $158.4 million over three years to launch the 988 suicide prevention phone hotline.To fight the opioid crisis, the budget is providing $359.2 million over five years to support a "renewed Canadian Drugs and Substance Strategy." That includes new money to help prevent substance abuse and streamline the establishment of new "supervised consumption sites."Walmart joins Canadian grocery rivals in pushing back against profiteering claimsInflation rate drops to 5.2% in February — but grocery prices are still upThe government signed a landmark deal with the premiers earlier this year — a major fiscal commitment that will substantially boost the Canada Health Transfer in the coming years.But the budget doesn't really address how provinces and territories will maintain current health-care staffing levels and recruit new workers for a system on the ropes after years of pandemic-related disruptions."It's a very striking gap in the document. We're talking about agricultural workers, truck drivers, critical mineral miners, but there's nothing in here about the people who provide us with critical services — doctors and nurses," said Yalnizyan."That's a problem because our system is crumbling as we speak. They gave the provinces so much money but the feds didn't ring-fence a single penny to ensure it doesn't get wasted on agency nursing and for-profit care."A senior government official, speaking on background to reporters during a budget briefing, said Ottawa needs a robust response to U.S. President Joe Biden's recent Inflation Reduction Act — a bill that, despite its name, is really a climate change plan that promises hundreds of billions of dollars in funding to stimulate clean energy development and a greener manufacturing sector.Shell's Quest Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) facility in Fort Saskatchewan, Alberta on October 7, 2021. (Todd Korol/Reuters)If the federal government doesn't step up with a plan of its own, Canada will be left behind, the official said.To that end, the federal government is introducing an investment tax credit for clean energy and clean tech to build a "prosperous low-carbon future."The budget offers a 15 per cent refundable tax credit for eligible investments in "non-emitting electricity generation systems" like wind, concentrated solar, hydro, wave, tidal and nuclear projects. That'll cost the federal treasury $6.3 billion over four years.To stimulate clean technology manufacturing, the budget proposes a refundable tax credit equal to 30 per cent of the cost of investments in new machinery and equipment. That credit will cost an expected $4.5 billion over five years.That will be useful for companies looking to extract, process or recycle critical minerals like lithium, cobalt, nickel, graphite, copper and rare earth elements — products that are in hot demand around the world as electric vehicle (EV) manufacturing ramps up dramatically.Conservative Leader Pierre Poilievre panned the budget as a spending "bonanza" and a "full frontal attack" on taxpayers.Poilievre said the billions in new government spending announced today will "pour fuel on the inflationary fire."He also pounced on the government's inaction on housing in this budget."We have an NDP government that is running inflationary deficits, bankrupting households and keeping young people living in their parents' basements," Poilievre said. He promised a government led by him would get unspecified "gatekeepers" out of the way to build "millions of new homes."WATCH: Poilievre calls budget a 'bonanza of $43 billion of new inflation, debt and taxes' Poilievre calls budget a 'bonanza of $43 billion of new inflation, debt and taxes'3 days agoDuration 1:40Conservative Leader Pierre Poilievre says his party will vote against the 2023 budget.The Canadian Alliance to End Homelessness also said the government unfairly ignored housing in this budget."It's clear the federal government does not see the scale and urgency of this crisis and [has] offered no solutions," said Tim Richter, the group's president and CEO.The Residential Construction Council of Ontario, the industry group that represents home builders, said the feds are "nibbling around the edges of the problem" by reallocating some money previously earmarked for public housing repairs to new construction."The budget doesn't fully address the systemic problems that are delaying construction of much-needed housing. We need to get more housing underway quickly as demand is expected to continue," said Richard Lyall, the group's president.NDP Leader Jagmeet Singh praised a budget that has his fingerprints all over it.His party pressured the government to renew the GST rebate and stand up a pharmacare plan — two conditions of the supply and confidence agreement that the NDP signed with the Liberal government last year.WATCH: Singh says budget offers the 'biggest expansion of our health care in a generation' Singh says budget offers the 'biggest expansion of our health care in a generation'3 days agoDuration 1:09NDP Leader Jagmeet Singh reacts to the 2023 federal budget.Singh said his MPs would vote for the budget, which means the minority government won't soon fall on a confidence vote."We're proud that we've been able to force this government to deliver things," he said. "Let me be clear. There would not have been dental care in this budget without New Democrats."
Ever wonder what a Windsor perfume would smell like? These high school students have an answer
A group of high school students at Maranatha Christian Academy has launched a small business selling Windsor, Ont.-inspired perfumes.Owen Turner is a member of the four-student team, which also includes Alisa Preston, David Moloce and Bethany Liem, that brought the environmentally conscious perfumes to life.Turner said that originally, they thought of making candles instead. However, that was ruled out because candles are a banned product for the project."We thought, well, candles make a scent — why don't we make a scent directly from the source?" he said.WATCH: CBC's Katerina Georgieva checks out the fragrances, tries to identify themA whiff of Windsor3 days agoDuration 2:00A group of high school students at Maranatha Christian Academy line of three perfumes inspired by Windsor: Riviere Blue, Cedar Rouge and Park de Fleurs. CBC Windsor News at 6 host Katerina Georgieva checks out the fragrances and tries to identify the name.The business, called YQG Essence, is part of a University of Windsor program that aims to develop students' financial literacy skills.According to the program's website, YouThrive's mission to teach entrepreneurial literacy is "the best way to prevent intergenerational poverty while helping youth and their communities thrive."The processPreston said their group did extensive research in a short amount of time, and relied on YouTube, articles and other sources to figure out how to make the scents."It was a bit of a struggle because a lot of perfumes are synthetic and they use all kinds of chemicals in them," said Preston. "We wanted to use natural ingredients, so we looked into different essential oils, and we decided to go with that and a carrier oil and then just some distilled water, so it's all natural."Windsor Morning8:25Smells of WindsorOwen Turner and Alisa Preston, part of a 4-student team from Maranatha Christian Academy, speak with CBC Windsor Morning host Peter Duck about the launch of YQG Essence.Preston said the team wanted to appeal to the Windsorite demographic when making the product. They ended up with these three scents, which reflect the city's "natural landscape while emphasizing sustainability" in sourcing, packaging, and production.Riviere Blue, inspired by the Detroit waterfront and described as a "nice, breezy, ocean scent."Park de Fleurs, a floral scent inspired by Jackson Park.Cedar Rouge, inspired by Ojibway Park.Turner said they bought the fragrances online and their 50 per cent recycled glass bottles from Texas."Then we sat down on a weekend and just measured out all the different scents with little pipettes, put them in the bottles and then fill the rest with distilled water," he said. "And all you have to do is give it a shake and it's ready to go."Three groups participated in the project, with one of them making "glowcap" keychains, which are glowing old bottle caps, and an environmentally friendly screen-cleaning solution.Turner said the group has discussed plans for the future, but they're waiting on sales before deciding whether to continue or not."There's an infinite in potential of different scents and even in different places around the country," he said.
Letter of thanks highlights how free feminine hygiene products can be a 'blessing'
It's been a year since a University of Windsor students group has been providing free menstrual products across the city. And now they know how at least one person who uses the service feels about it. The author used blue marker and drew a big heart at the top, near where they underlined the name of the recipient. "Dear P. Pantry.""You'll never understand what a blessing !!! this is," said the anonymous writer, who left the letter in the cabinet at Wolf and Rebel, a self-care boutique in Ford City."Been unemployed two months due to an injury and have had little to no money :(. This has helped me so much when trying to make ends meet. You've saved me during my time of the month. XO anonymous."Free feminine hygiene products coming to Windsor-Essex public schools, thanks to Grade 12 studentWindsor students collecting feminine hygiene products for the homelessGirl Up UWindsor's Period Pantry initiative launched last year, with some of the pantries set up at Windsor Public Libraries and other locations like the Sandwich Teen Action Group. Eight or nine pantries are set up, with more in the works.The Wolf and Rebel pantry is most accessible, says Isabelle Dib, president of Girl Up UWindsor. And when the university group doesn't fill it with donations, Wolf and Rebel founder Annie Vanrivong fills it with donations herself.Period Pantry a 'blessing' for those who need it4 days agoDuration 1:22Wolf and Rebel founder Annie Vanrivong talks about a letter dropped off by someone who appreciates the Period Pantry box outside the store.  The cabinet from Girl Up UWindsor supplies menstrual products for those who need them.The project aims to put free menstrual products in the hands of those who need them but struggle with the cost."Especially with inflation now and just the financial struggles people face, day-to-day period products can be expensive," Dib said."And if you don't have enough money for even food, sometimes the period products get cut from your budget. So we're just trying to make peoples lives easier."Vanrivong says she's gotten positive feedback. The pantries are located around Windsor and people who need the products can access them. (Katerina Georgieva/CBC)"We're accepting donations all the time. You can always come and drop it off at the store during store hours, or you can leave it in the pantry if we're not open, and then we always will bring it in and package them."Girl Up is an initiative of the United Nations Foundation that promotes education, health and safety for young women and girls. The UWindsor chapter was founded two years ago.Girl Up executives Kiana Mokrian, Sydney Lynn and Kayah St. Germain worked to set up the pantry program, which runs on donations.St. Germain, previous vice-president, said that the boxes have helped the community, even though the group has limited ways to get the word out."But I think the people that have noticed them, that know that they're there, have really benefited from them."
Federal government eases some restrictions on non-Canadians purchasing property
The government is walking back some restrictions on foreigners purchasing residential property just months after the new rules came into force.Non-Canadians in the country on a work permit or who are authorized to work in Canada can now purchase residential property. They must have at least 183 days or more remaining on their work permit or work authorization and must purchase only one property to be eligible.Non-Canadians and foreign businesses can now also purchase residential property if they intend to develop it, and can purchase vacant land zoned for residential or mixed use for any purpose.Parliament passed the law restricting non-Canadians from purchasing property, the Prohibition on the Purchase of Residential Property by Non-Canadians Act, in June 2022. The law went into force at the start of this year, and prevents non-Canadians from buying residential property in Canada for two years. The restrictions were part of a Liberal promise made during the 2021 federal election campaign amid rising home prices.Thousands of military members to be cut off as Ottawa introduces expanded housing benefitAnalysisNew year, new taxes: how taxation changes in 2023 could affect youAhmed Hussen, the minister of housing and diversity and inclusion, announced the changes Monday. A news release from the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation (CMHC) said the changes went into effect immediately."These amendments will allow newcomers to put down roots in Canada through home ownership and businesses to create jobs and build homes by adding to the housing supply in Canadian cities," Hussen said in the news release."These amendments strike the right balance in ensuring that housing is used to house those living in Canada, rather than a speculative investment by foreign investors."CRA waives late penalty on new housing taxThe changes came on the same day the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA) waived late fees and interest on the Underused Housing Tax (UHT), which also came into effect on Jan. 1. The tax requires non-resident, non-Canadians to pay one per cent of the value of any vacant or underused property in Canada yearly. There are several exemptions to the UHT, including an exception for seasonal properties.The CRA said in a news release it was waiving the penalties because it "understands that there are unique challenges for affected owners in the first year" of the tax.Those affected by the tax will now have until Oct. 31 to file UHT returns and payments without penalty.
New study finds 'obvious gaps' in research on Islamophobia in Canadian health-care settings
A new study from McMaster University and the Muslim Advisory Council of Canada (MACC) says there are "obvious gaps" in research about the discrimination Muslim patients face in Canadian health-care settings.Tabassum Wyne, MACC's executive director, told CBC Hamilton the study came after community consultations before the 2021 national summit on Islamophobia showed Muslim people — especially women and girls — were facing discrimination in health-care settings."I experienced indirect Islamophobia within the health-care system seven years ago when I gave birth," Wyne said."It's not right Muslim women and girls are feeling fearful when seeking medical attention ... there's a problem at hand."The study, published Monday, is a review of 14 peer-reviewed studies on Canadian, U.S., and U.K. health-care settings. The scope went beyond Canada because there's seemingly never been a large-scale Canadian study on how much discrimination Muslims face in health care, researchers said.The analysis comes as Canada has seen a rise in hate crimes and Muslim people are among the most common targets for religion-based hate crimes, according to Statistics Canada.Despite being a common target for hate, cities across the nation are also seeing Muslim communities grow.'They think you are stupid'Krishian Camargo, team lead of the McMaster Research Shop in Hamilton, said the key takeaway is there isn't enough research on the subject, especially in Canada."I was a little bit surprised … I expected a lot more studies in Canada to be honest," she said.Camargo said the extent of discrimination in health-care settings isn't clear.There's more information on what form it took, but Camargo also cautioned more research is needed.The study said American research showed while there were few instances of overt discrimination like assaults, over half of all Muslim patients said they were dismissed, excluded or ignored in health-care settings.Number of reported hate crimes set new record in 2020 as other crimes decreased: Statistics CanadaCanadian Muslims share experiences of Islamophobia in new report"You see their faces. You feel it that they think you are stupid and you don't know anything about this world," said one woman in a research paper assessed in the study.Wyne said in MACC's consultations, one woman wearing a hijab said when they sought medical care, the staff member spoke to a family member who wasn't wearing a hijab, instead of speaking to her, "as if they won't understand the physician."Some Muslim patients also faced offensive or insensitive remarks, according to the study.The study said Muslim patients reported more negative experiences, lower quality care and feeling distrustful in health-care settings.It also found there was a lack of culturally appropriate care, with staff not considering the need for prayer spaces and halal food options, among other things.The study said past research suggests Islamophobia grew after global events like the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks and the Boston Marathon bombing in 2013.Recommendations for health care and future researchThe research reviewed in the study included some recommendations for health-care settings including:All health-care providers and staff at health-care institutions should receive regular training programs about religion, culture, and ethnicity.Health-care providers and staff at health-care institutions should consult with patients to determine their individual preferences and then provide appropriate care.Hire more Muslim health-care providers and female health-care providers.The study notes limitations including how it may have missed some research on the subject and how the studies are from three different countries, with three different health-care systems.It also said existing research relies on self-reported measures, which can be less accurate compared to a scale like the Discrimination in Medical Settings scale used in the United States.Another limitation was how samples in past studies might've only represented some Muslims or had small sample sizes in general.Camargo added that discrimination has many layers — for example, some people couldn't say if they were discriminated against because of their age or gender, instead of their religion.But the study has numerous recommendations about future Canadian research on the topic.Some of the recommendations include:Include more women, children and participants of different cultures, ethnicities, races and incomes.Use scales, questionnaires or surveys designed to measure Islamophobia or religious discrimination in health-care settings.Use interviews or focus groups.Study the impact of discrimination on access to care, quality of care, and health outcomes.MACC said it is seeking support from the federal and provincial governments to conduct health equity research.Wyne said that could include a deeper dive into indirect discrimination and Islamophobia."Not every Canadian gets the same services, there are a lot of inherent biases … it's not acceptable that there's a distrust of the health-care system," she said.
Windsor mayor says the city is helping Roxham Road migrants integrate and find work
Windsor mayor Drew Dilkens told CBC News it's "too soon to tell" what will happen after Canada and the U.S. reached a deal to tighten the rules on asylum claimants crossing the border.But Dilkens says the city is working through the number of asylum claimants currently in Windsor and trying to get them "actively engaged in the community" by finding work for them.Dilkens talked on Rosemary Barton Live on Sunday about the roughly 1,100 asylum claimants who've recently arrived in Windsor, many through the Roxham Road border crossing in Quebec. The Trudeau government reached a long-discussed deal with the U.S. Thursday to close a loophole in the Safe Third Country Agreement (STCA)."We're trying to find the silver lining here," he said during the interview."They certainly don't want to stay in a hotel room 24/7. They want to get out and be productive as well."With the new agreement, asylum seekers must make their claims in the first safe country they reach. Prior to the deal, it only applied to official ports of entry, not the entire border.Canadian authorities patrolling the border, including at the popular Roxham Road crossing, are now able to turn asylum seekers back to the United States.That agreement "is good news to have orderly and structured processes for refugees seeking asylum in Canada," Dilkens said.He said he wasn't surprised by the move."Watching sort of the track that was being was being laid in advance of the [U.S.] president's visit, it wasn't just pressure from Canada at Roxham Road, it was also complaints by the United States."After years of stalled talks, Canada and U.S. reach border deal on irregular migrants: sourcesStunned faces and heartbreak for migrants heading to Roxham as they learn Canada will likely send them backIn response to a influx of asylum claimants to Canada, the federal government is housing people at hotels in cities including Windsor.A group of Windsor councillors told the federal government earlier this month the city can't handle any more asylum seekers.Dilkens said the city is renting around 650 to host almost 1,100 migrants who are here seeking refuge."Our country was founded on immigrants, my city as well. And so we want to be good hosts," said Dilkens. "But there's no doubt it does put strain on on all facets of our municipal systems."Mike Morency, who runs refugee claimant support service Matthew House, spoke to council last week about the growing number of asylum seekers. He said refugee claimants face unique challenges and require additional support to adjust to life in Canada."It's like entering into a car race when you haven't even bought your first car yet," he said."These people don't even have their refugee claims submitted."Ottawa will limit use of Windsor hotels for asylum seekers to 500 rooms: mayorWe need money and more help to support asylum seekers, Windsor councillors sayWindsor can't handle more asylum seekers from the U.S. without federal help, report saysDilkens spoke about the STCA and said it's a good sign the agreement "has been expanded to look really border-wide.""We have the world's longest undefended border. And we need to make sure that there are sensible rules in place to protect both of our nations," he said.In a council meeting earlier this month, David Cote, a staff lawyer at Legal Assistance of Windsor told council the root of the problem lied in the STCA."As long as the federal government continues to implement the STCA without regard to the treatment of asylum claimants in the United States, we will continue to see people entering Canada," Cote told the community services standing committee."A cap on numbers has not and will not work."
Windsor's highest paid city employee last year was only on the job for 3 months
Windsor's former chief administrative officer Jason Reynar was the top paid city employee in 2022, despite being dismissed from the role three months into the year.Reynar made $279,131.55, along with $13,407.88 in taxable benefits, according to the annual public sector salary disclosure for those who made $100,000 or more. It's also known as the Sunshine List.Ontario just released its 2022 Sunshine List. See it for yourself hereWindsor CAO no longer on the job following city council voteCBC News has reached out to the city for comment. A spokesperson said "the city doesn't comment on personal matters of identifiable individuals."Reynar declined comment.Reynar's dismissal took effect on April 1, 2022, a year after he was hired in the role.The city has released little information regarding the reason for his departure. A memo to city employees stated that council "opted to move in a different direction."During an in-camera meeting on March 31, seven members of city council voted to remove Reynar from the city's top administrative position.Councillors Kieran McKenzie, Fabio Costante and former councillors Chris Holt and Rino Bortolin voted against the motion, according to documents summarizing the in-camera meeting.ExclusiveMayor and council violated a city bylaw when dismissing their most recent CAOWindsor mayor won't answer questions about former chief's mysterious retirement agreementRetired former CAO Onorio Colucci has been serving as Windsor's acting CAO. Provincial and municipal public institutions are required to publicly disclose anyone who made more than $100,000 annually. The deadline to do that is March 31.The city released the salary disclosure last Friday. It gave the caveat that "in many cases the amounts include such one-time payment items as acting pay, overtime, retroactive payments, adjustments required by pay equity legislation, and/or settlements that do not form part of the normal ongoing base salary of employees."13 city employees made more than $200KIncluding Reynar, there are 13 city of Windsor employees who earned more than $200,000 last year. They include six Windsor police employees, five members of the city's corporate leadership team and the CEO of the Windsor-Detroit Tunnel.The second highest paid person on the City of Windsor list also was not in the position for most of the year.Former Windsor police chief Pam Mizuno abruptly announced her retirement in the middle of a five-year contract on March 22, 2022, which took effect nine days later. In a goodbye email obtained by CBC News at the time, Mizuno said her decision stemmed from a desire to spend more time with her family.It's unclear why she collected a salary of $266,536.34 and taxable benefits of $4,143.84 last year, despite retiring in March.Windsor Mayor Drew Dilkens, who's also chair of the police board, says he won't discuss Mizuno's retirement agreement."It's about an identifiable individual, so I can't talk about the matter," said Dilkens during a media scrum last week.The City of Windsor also released a list for the water and hydro utility ENWIN.Six executives made more than $200,000, with CEO Helga Reidel the top earner with a salary $310,166 in 2022.
Windsor police officer who donated to Ottawa convoy will learn his penalty in May
A Windsor, Ont., police officer who was found guilty of professional misconduct over a donation to Freedom Convoy protests will find out the penalty later this spring.Const. Michael Brisco donated $50 to convoy protests in Ottawa on Feb. 8 last year.In a decision released Friday, he was found guilty of a single count of professional misconduct.A hearing to determine the penalty is scheduled for May 4.2 Windsor police officers face misconduct charges over alleged Freedom Convoy donationsAccording to the decision, Brisco's lawyer argued Brisco did not believe he was a police officer at the time of the donation because he was on unpaid leave due to non-compliance with the Windsor police COVID-19 vaccination policy.Ontario Provincial Police adjudicator M.P.B. Elbers concluded, however, that Brisco had not been terminated and was still an officer at the time of the donation.Brisco's name was contained in a database of Freedom Convoy donors that was made public after the crowdfunding website GiveSendGo was hacked in February. Brisco testified he sent the money to support truckers in Ottawa. He said he doesn't support criminal activity, and would not have supported the convoy if he believed anything illegal was happening."He does not believe that the donation he made reflected badly towards him. He believed the cause to be noble," Elbers wrote in the decision.Elbers concluded the protest was illegal at the time the donation was made."The money directly opposed what the various police services in Ottawa were doing. I understand it was a cause he believed in, but this does not render it OK when you are a member of a police service, and in this case that service is Windsor."
Mitchell Park neighbours support councillor's idea to have park monitors
Some neighbours to Mitchell Park in Windsor, Ont,. who say group of disruptive kids are driving people away from the park, are expressing their support for Ward 3 councillor's idea to add a monitor who oversees the park.Martin Oubliette, a neighbour of the park, said last year a group of 12-16 year old kids started "accosting people on the way by."He said the incidents for progressively worse as the groups got larger."One night in the fall they, drove a young father and his kid out of the park," he said. "My wife and I went there and … chased them off, called the police down and that was the end of it for the year."Windsor Morning10:53Mitchell Park monitorRobert Ross, founder of the Mitchell Park Neighbours Group on Facebook, and Martin Oubliette, a Mitchell Park neighbour, speak with CBC Windsor Morning host Peter Duck about a proposal to hire a park monitor to curb mischief.Robert Ross, who started the Mitchell Park Neighbours Group on Facebook — which has more than 750 members — said the decrease of incidents during the winter is only temporary."Even in my deepest, most optimistic core, I'm not sure that this is anything more than a seasonal break from these activities," Ross told CBC Windsor.Ross said neighbours are avoiding the park now due to the incidents, which has "further empowered and emboldened" the kids.He said there's a bit of a divide between neighbours of the area."Some of the neighbours want to drop the hammer and just call the police in and nuke the place," said Ross.Other neighbours want to see the kids take ownership of the neighbourhood and act less as unwelcome guests and more like neighbours who live in the community."I don't think direct policing is necessarily the best solution here," said Oubliette. "They should be a call of last resort."<a href="https://t.co/SKJlCNiDyZ">pic.twitter.com/SKJlCNiDyZ</a>&mdash;@RenaldoAgostinoWard 3 councillor Renaldo Agostino said he's hoping to have administration look back at a program he grew up with in Toronto where "every park had a set of eyes.""They weren't necessarily security guards … but they were there to help activate the park and provide games," he said.Agostino is holding a meeting with the community on Wednesday evening to discuss the park and downtown alleys.Ross said he feels like it's a "wonderful idea," but the program would need to cater to the neighbours and their reintegration into the park."You get these kids knowing your names... and all of a sudden they know you and they trust you and it gets a little bit more difficult to behave the way that they're behaving when you feel like you're one of the neighbours," he said.
Migrant workers deserve to know the details of how they're being tracked, union says
The way migrant farm workers' productivity is tracked, and the possible consequences for moving too slowly, are at the centre of a campaign by a union that represents them.Last year, the Ontario government passed legislation requiring businesses with more than 25 employees to create policies and let workers know how employers might be using their personal information.Santiago Escobar, a national representative with the United Food and Commercial Workers (UFCW), said it wants to raise awareness that for workers in agriculture, tracking information is already being used."For instance, this will impact local and migrant agricultural workers and they deserve to know exactly the type of information, the type of data that the employer is using," he said."So workers will learn if the employer uses this information, this personal data, to decide if the worker will be rehired the next season, for instance." We're subject to all labour laws as are any other businesses in Ontario.- Richard Lee, Ontario Greenhouse Vegetable GrowersRichard Lee, executive director of the Ontario Greenhouse Vegetable Growers (OGVG), said the technology has been around for a while and helps farming operations find efficiencies and track food safety issues."In using these labour management systems, you're able to identify the individual role that that produce was picked and the employee," including, for instance, "if you ever had a … food safety issue that you had to identify potential lots of produce that were picked that day."But Escobar said he's heard from workers that the data is used to measure progress and speed, and can result in punishments for employees who aren't working fast enough."We have learned that especially migrant agricultural workers in Ontario are threatened on a regular basis. So basically if they don't work fast, they will be sent back home," he said."It is a common practice for those working in greenhouses or mushroom facilities to be tracked with these so-called productivity software."Escobar said televisions are often set up displaying each worker's progress, and he's heard instances where if someone is falling behind, they're being docked pay or given a few unpaid days off as punishment.This is an example of the chart displayed on a TV at a farming operation. Each bar is connected to a worker and those highlighted red are deemed to not be working fast enough. (Submitted by Santiago Escobar)Lee said he's never heard of that happening."They're trying to manage their labour, trying to manage, harvest and reduce costs. It's not to penalize employees or to have any kind of retribution applied to workers," he said."We're subject to all labour laws as are any other businesses in Ontario."Escobar said that while the legislation won't stop the practice, it will at least force employers to tell employees what information is being tracked, and how it will be used.He said the system leads to employees working under duress and sometimes in an unsafe way, because they want to keep up the pace.Richard Lee, executive director of the Ontario Greenhouse Vegetable Growers, says the software used to monitor workers' progress helps create efficiencies and can help track down bad or unsafe product. (CBC News)"They feel that if they don't work fast enough, they know that they will be punished or will be sent back home. So they work under a lot of stress, a lot of anxiety, and workers really complain about it," he said."You have to work very fast and in order to achieve the set quota, you won't be able to practise and follow all the health and safety regulations."Lee said the data is essential to making farming sustainable, and it can be used to reward employees.But Escobar pointed out that a lot of workers are aren't paid a per-unit wage, which means they aren't rewarded and they just have to work faster for the same amount of money."Basically, workers are pressured to achieve the set quota even though temporary foreign workers, they had to be paid according to their agreements, their contracts, they had to be paid per hour."
Family tragedy has inspired the owners of Dairy Freez to raise money for suicide prevention
Arlene Reaume lost her husband, Mike, to suicide nearly three years ago and says there are still days that are difficult."The struggle is still. There are some days it's like yesterday but other days you know we do better," Reaume said.Reaume and her family have owned the iconic Dairy Freez in Essex County for almost 70 years and wanted to use their place in the community to help others find the support they need.VideoIconic ice cream stop, Dairy Freez, back in business in Essex CountyVideoMike Reaume, owner of Dairy Freez in Essex County, dead at 62 Last year her son Jeff got the idea to sell T-shirts and hoodies with three different Dairy Freez logos on them — one each to represent the 1950's, '60s and '70s — different decades the restaurant has been around.Five dollars from the sale of each shirt goes to the Canadian Mental Health Association (CMHA) for suicide prevention programs.Jeff Reaume works the grill at the Dairy Freez Friday. (Dale Molnar/CBC)"I've been thinking about these logos for quite some time and we decided that we wanted to do something worthwhile with them," Jeff Reaume said."And since this community has been taking care of us for the last 69 years, I thought it would be a nice way to give back, especially after the challenges the area has had since the pandemic." Jeff Reaume said the work is also in honour of his father.The CMHA said the money is much needed to save lives because the organization doesn't get government funding for the programs.Kim Willis, director of communications and mental health promotion at the CMHA, said she thinks the family is phenomenal."They've done a couple of fundraisers in the past that have gone towards our efforts at suicide prevention and they just continue to give back and I mean, they're amazing," Willis said."Any efforts that we do are reliant on fundraised dollars, so support like this allows to go into the community and provide education and awareness around where you can turn if someone is suicidal."This is one of the designs people can buy in support of the Canadian Mental Health Association. (Dale Molnar/CBC)The Reaumes have been selling the shirts since November and have raised $750.But they've also been participating in raffles with the Essex 73's hockey team and have raised $25,000 through those efforts.Bev Kelk was a car hop at the Dairy Freez back in 1956. She thinks the shirts are a great idea."I think it's a wonderful fundraising activity and I wish them the very best on that," she said."If I can help in some way in selling some I will pass it on."The shirts have to be ordered online. Information can be found on the Dairy Freez Facebook page.If you or someone you know is struggling, here's where to get help: Talk Suicide Canada: 1-833-456-4566 (phone) | 45645 (text between 4 p.m. and midnight ET).  Kids Help Phone: 1-800-668-6868 (phone), live chat counselling on the website.  Canadian Association for Suicide Prevention: Find a 24-hour crisis centre.  This guide from the Centre for Addiction and Mental Health outlines how to talk about suicide with someone you're worried about. 
This Windsor educator took a Holocaust education trip. Now she's bringing it to classrooms
When Amina Abdulle went to Poland to learn about the Holocaust as part of Friends of Simon Wiesenthal Center's (FSWC) Compassion to Action program, she was expecting to take notes in hopes of supporting staff and students in Windsor-Essex.While Abdulle, the equity consultant at the Greater Essex County District School Board, took down plenty of notes, the trip had a much deeper impact on her."I don't think I expected to have a personal kind of connection," Abdulle said. "I think I was going in there with, 'I am an educator so I'm going to go and I'm going to learn as much as possible.'"Veteran 'hurt and outraged' as vandals paint swastikas on Chatham cenotaphHow trauma suffered by Holocaust survivors has affected the next generationBut then she and the other 23 educators on the trip had the opportunity to speak to a Holocaust survivor. The survivor spoke about family and what she went through. That's when Abdulle, who moved with her family to Canada from Somalia, began to resonate."We had a beautiful life and that was interrupted by war," Abdulle said. "I was really young, so it didn't impact me. And when we were there, I just kept feeling connected and remembering some parts of coming through the war that I didn't expect in a Holocaust survivor. She was absolutely incredible, and she was talking about her mother. I just recently lost my mother and I just kept feeling the feelings. I think it was a lot more of a personal heart trip than I expected. It was just one of the most moving experiences of my life."That conversation with the survivor was just one of many things that impacted her on the trip, which included tours through former concentration and extermination camps Auschwitz-Birkenau, Chelmno, Majdanek and Plaszow. Program invited educators exclusively for first timeThe Compassion for Action program invites influential Canadians on an eye-opening journey to learn about the Holocaust, racism and intolerance, with the objective of teaching them about the history of antisemitism and inspiring and empowering them to act against hate in their communities. Abdulle and the 23 others were part of the first time educators were exclusively invited to the program."Travelling with educators from private, public and Catholic school boards across Ontario on our inaugural Compassion to Action for Educators journey to Poland has been a remarkable experience," said FSWC Director of Education Melissa Mikel, who helped lead the trip.Abdulle said, as an equity consultant, it was important for her to make sure to immerse herself as much as possible, so she can support educators and others to create great resources.  How antisemitic tropes are being used to target the LGBTQ communityAssumption University researcher examining anti-Semitism in Windsor"For myself, especially as someone who is not Jewish and and does not have a direct connection to the Holocaust, I really wanted to make sure that I understood as much as possible so that the materials I create are as authentic as possible," Abdulle said. "It's really important to see a holistic picture of Jewish people and also when we think about the Holocaust, we're not telling the story for Jewish people."Abdulle said this message of humanity and history is important to tell in today's classrooms. She, like others, has seen a rise in racism and antisemitism."Unfortunately, there's been and continues to be things that happen in schools around us," Abdulle said. "So it's really important for students and for all of us, to understand that the lessons that we're learning to ensure that we are moving past hatred that we are moving past negative because again when one of us hurts we all hurt. That's the goal we should remember."
Youth violent crime in Windsor was up in 2022 - and above the 5-year average
Youth crime was up in Windsor in 2022, according to the police force's annual report.In 2022, 254 youths were involved in crime as either an accused party, arrested, charged or an offender, an 11.9 per cent increase over 2021's total of 227, according to the report.Windsor mayor won't answer questions about former chief's mysterious retirement agreementMost panhandling tickets are never paid, and 1 person was ticketed more than 30 timesViolent crime committed by young people was up 35 per cent over 2021 numbers — from 115 to 156 youths.That number is higher than the five-year average of 149.The number of young people committing property crimes was also up in 2022, jumping 32 per cent from 2021. We're hoping that you know through that collaborative effort that we settle our statistics a little bit more and that we see that downward trend.- Chief Jason BellaireChief Jason Bellaire said the force has been trying to focus on youth crime."We're working closer with groups like Youth Diversion and we're trying to get more interventions in youth crime to prevent the evolution into adult crime," he said."One explanation is sometimes that our involvement is creating a higher statistic. But certainly, you know, I can't rule out that there's just simply an increase in youth crime this year."Bellaire also said he hopes the work the force is doing with its partners in diverting youth away from crime, like Youth Diversion and New Beginnings, will start paying off."Our investigators meet with them all the time and it's something that we hope that the next time around with the report, the good news is that we've made the appropriate interventions, not just as a police service but with the other agencies that are involved with the youth interventions," he said."We're hoping that you know through that collaborative effort that we settle our statistics a little bit more and that we see that downward trend that we like to see."There were some declines in crimes committed by young people.The number of young people committing drug-related crimes was down 14 from 2021, to two. And breaches of release conditions, failure to attend court violations and offences that fall into the "other crime" category were down 30 per cent from 2021.Youth Diversion executive director, Joanna Conrad, is shown in a file photo. (Jacob Barker/CBC)Youth Diversion executive director, Joanna Conrad, said there are a couple of contributing factors to the spike in numbers."I know that the numbers went down during COVID," Conrad said. "So now that we're out of all of that, I would say that is a contributing factor for sure."She also said the work they do with police can also cause numbers to jump."We've been working very hard with respect to educating the patrol officers about pre-charged diversion," Conrad said. "So whenever we typically do these sessions, we do see an increase in referral."For John Elliott, executive director with the Sandwich Teen Action Group, his first question is, what are these kids doing after school."Because typically if they're hanging around in the streets idly, trouble will find them or they'll find trouble and it's not good because you start to lose them," Elliott said."You can't save all of them but, you know, if you provide some positive mentors with a place where they can go and and it's safe, you know, chances are you're going to save a lot of them."Stacey Yannacopoulus, executive director at New Beginnings, said the increase is sad, but unsurprising."We've had you know, almost a 13 per cent increase in youth that we're serving and you know, most of those are youth that were either, charged, accused of or affiliated in some sense with, you know, with the criminal behaviour," she said."So I can't say I'm surprised, but I do know that there's really strong efforts in place to address this."Yannacopoulus said there's no silver bullet when it comes to curbing youth crime."There's never one single risk factor or like root cause for youth crime," she said."That's why it's so important that we're taking a really like integrated kind of collaborative approach because we do want to, you know, take a really hard look at all of those risk factors involved."Social media challenges playing a roleLooking at the numbers, Conrad also sees social media playing into spikes in youth crime, especially when it comes to the many challenges that come across TikTok's platform."Young people are typically pursuing 'clout' for, you know, an online reputation and the way in which to get that, especially for young males, is typically to do extreme violent acts," Conrad said."It usually results in them engaging in various violent offences. And then recording it and then posting it online because they know they're going to get the views. They're going to get followers. And as silly as I might sound, it really is all about the likes. It's very much about those followers and gaining that online reputation."  
Ontario just released its 2022 Sunshine List. See it for yourself here
Ontario's so-called sunshine list is out and the three top paid public employees in the province are all at Ontario Power Generation.The disclosure of public sector workers who were paid more than $100,000 in 2022 had nearly 267,000 names and Kenneth Hartwick, CEO of the electricity Crown corporation, is again in the top spot with a salary of a little more than $1.7 million.Two other executives at the organization made nearly $1.7 million and nearly $1 million.Phil Verster, the CEO of Metrolinx, Kevin Smith, the president and CEO of University Health Network, Mark Fuller, the president and CEO of the Ontario Public Service Pension Board, and Matt Anderson, CEO of Ontario Health, all made more than $800,000.You can find a list of the top 100 earners below.Treasury Board President Prabmeet Sarkaria highlighted the salaries of nurses and teachers on the list released Friday."The largest year-over-year increase was in the hospitals and boards of public health sector, which represented almost half of the growth of the list," he wrote in a statement. "This was primarily driven by an increase in the number of nurses represented on the list, which accounted for 78 per cent of the growth in that sector as our government has continued to make unprecedented investments in connecting the people of Ontario to convenient care, including by hiring more health care workers."The number of teachers earning $100,000 or more is at "historic highs," Sarkaria wrote, with 65,510 in 2022, up from 29,975 in 2020.Salaries of other key Ontario public figures:Salaries of other Ontario public figures include:- $208,974 for Premier Doug Ford- $346,303 for Ford's then-chief of staff, Jamie Wallace, who is now CEO of Supply Ontario- $466,057 for Chief Medical Officer of Health Dr. Kieran Moore - $456,720 for Chief Coroner Dr. Dirk Huyer- $391,986 for Auditor General Bonnie Lysyk - $361,781 for OPP Commissioner Thomas Carrique - $348,615 for TVO journalist Steve Paikin The Public Sector Salary Disclosure Act, enacted by former Progressive Conservative premier Mike Harris in 1996, compels organizations that receive public funding from the province to report the names, positions and pay of people who make more than $100,000.Search the complete Sunshine List for yourself here.Ontario unveils biggest-ever $204B budget, but one with little to ease daily affordability issuesOntario changes eye exam eligibility for seniors, those with cataracts, other conditions
Mayor and hospital say Ford's provincial budget will help, while NDP MPP says it's lacking
Windsor's mayor tweeted some applause. The regional hospital CEO says he's waiting for details. The Downtown Mission of Windsor says it'll help.Overall, the Ontario budget got cautious approval Thursday from some in Windsor, while Windsor West's NDP MPP says it falls short. Finance Minister Peter Bethlenfalvy tabled the budget at Queen's Park Thursday. That budget includes record spending — $204.7 billion. It also comes at a time of above-target inflation, high interest rates and a possible recession. Windsor mayor Drew Dilkens tweeted in approval for $202 million more for homelessness prevention."Premier we are ready to put these dollars to work ASAP," he said. <a href="https://twitter.com/fordnation?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@FordNation</a> making a historic investment in homelessness services; major new funding coming to <a href="https://twitter.com/CityWindsorON?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@CityWindsorON</a> - Premier, we are ready to put these $$ to work ASAP. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/ONBudget2023?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#ONBudget2023</a> <a href="https://t.co/2RhuA7QfQh">https://t.co/2RhuA7QfQh</a>&mdash;@drewdilkensIn the budget, the government earmarked money for a number of hospital projects, including support for Windsor Regional Hospital's new Windsor-Essex Acute Care Hospital, that will consolidate acute care services, while retaining the existing Ouellette campus for urgent care and ambulatory services.Windsor Regional Hospital CEO David Musyj sent out a statement applauding the increased funding for hospitals in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic.Ontario 2023 budget: See it for yourself here"The government has signaled a 4 per cent base funding increase to hospitals" Musyj said. "Windsor Regional Hospital's current annual budget is in excess of $610 million. We will await the detailed funding transfer letters which will provide exact details to Windsor Regional Hospital."Downtown Mission of Windsor's executive director, Rukshini Ponniah-Goulin, said she was also happy with the hundreds of millions of dollars for mental health services and homelessness prevention.Ontario earmarking millions more for homelessness prevention and mental health services. (Dale Molnar/CBC)"More funding for housing, supportive housing and homelessness," Ponniah-Goulin said. "That will hopefully help us here in Windsor-Essex with that very large list of people on a wait list that we have."What it could mean for manufacturingHowever, Windsor West NDP MPP Lisa Gretzky slammed the government on a number of fronts, including rent increases and the cost to purchase a new home."There's nothing in there that's going to address the fact that we have a dramatic increase in people accessing food banks," Gretzky said, adding that women's shelters and autism services were left out.Rakesh Naidu, president of the Windsor Regional Chamber of Commerce applauds a 10 per cent tax credit for businesses that invest in their firms. He said it will help increase business investment in the area."Support to the manufacturing sector through an investment tax credit is a good move," Naidu said. "It will help in bringing further investment into the province as well as support existing companies in investing in technology and infrastructure to take advantage of the fast evolving manufacturing sector."Naidu also said more money earmarked for skills development will help fill gaps in the workforce, and he is also glad to see the province and the federal government funding skills development for immigrants.Windsor-Tecumseh MPP Andrew Dowie was very excited about the budget."I'm just so delighted to see everything in here for our region," Dowie said. "So the Volkswagen announcement just came out, the details are yet to come. But obviously the provincial support for that is going to be part of this budget. Also our hospital infrastructure, the regional acute care hospital. Let there be no doubt this hospital is being built by this government that it is not going to be an omission as we've seen in the past."
